"# credit-card-fraud-detection" 

# About the project
### Abstract
Finance fraud is a growing problem with far consequences in the financial industry and while many techniques have been discovered. Data mining has been successfully applied to finance databases to automate analysis of huge volumes of complex data. Data mining has also played a salient role in the detection of credit card fraud in online transactions. Fraud detection in credit card is a data mining problem, it becomes challenging due to two major reasons–first, the profiles of normal and fraudulent behaviours change frequently and secondly due to reason that credit card fraud data sets are highly skewed. This paper investigates and checks the performance of Decision tree, Random Forest, SVM and logistic regression on highly skewed credit card fraud data. Dataset of credit card transactions is sourced from European cardholders containing 284,786 transactions. These techniques are applied on the raw and pre-processed data. The performance of the techniques is evaluated based on accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision. The results indicate about the optimal accuracy for logistic regression, decision tree, Random Forest and SVM classifiers are 97.7%, 95.5% and 98.6%, 97.5% respectively.
### Context
It is important that credit card companies are able to recognize fraudulent credit card transactions so that customers are not charged for items that they did not purchase.
### Content
The datasets contain transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders. This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.
It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, we cannot provide the original features and more background information about the data. Features V1, V2, ... V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'. Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependent cost-sensitive learning. Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.
